Hello.
Very good.
Hi.
I'm doctor Chao Chen.
And the lecturer in quantitative
Social Research in the School of
Social Sciences at the Burbank
University of London.
In this video I will provide a
practical overview of multiple
linear regression.
I'm going to start by using the
bivariate regression to review
the core concept and the
mathematical properties of the
linear regression model.
I also explain how social
researchers view the data
analytical objectives of linear
regression in different ways,
and how different views of
linear regression model were
influenced.
Our understanding and
interpretation, our review of
the linear regression model,
where then addressed the key
assumptions we need, as well as
the main principles of
statistical inference when it
comes to linear regression.
Next, I will discuss the
underlying rationale for
multiple linear regression.
Why has multiple over
multivariate linear regression
become the most common way of
understanding the social world?
What issues do we have to
consider when we try to build a
multiple linear regression
model?
I will finish the discussion
here by highlighting some basic
principles on when we try to
design and implement our
multiple linear regression
analysis.
The most important key takeaway
lesson from this video is to
recognize all statistical models
are only approximations of the
reality.
There is no perfect statistical
model, although we do have some
very general principles.
We can follow and yet for any
quantitative social researcher,
we still have to make a lot of
decisions and very often list
decisions may not have a clear
answer or solution.
As food by George Box, all
models are wrong, but some of
them are useful bugs.
Is one of the most important
statisticians of all time and
the least particular line has
become one of the most important
motors for quant researchers
around the world.
Regression analysis is a very
common statistical technique and
regression analysis allows us to
represent major and estimate the
statistical relationship between
different factors or variables
in the social world or human
society and the linear
regression model is just one of
the regression techniques we
use.
However, the linear regression
model is perhaps the most widely
used model because it provides
us with a very straightforward
and intuitive means to achieve
the objective I have just
mentioned linear regressions
allows us to use a simple linear
function to present the
correlation between X&Y,
which often can be very
complicating real life and very
often in may not be realistic to
present the correlation with the
straight line.
Consider this linear function.
We will talk about multiple
linear regression in a minute,
but let us focus on bivariate
linear regression. For now to
illustrate some of the core
concept, and mathematical
properties of linear regression
by very linear regression that
only has one predictor or
independent variable and the
linear function.
We can use X to represent the
predictor and Y to represent the
outcome or the dependent
variable.
Some researchers also call why
the response variable.
As you see in the textbook.
And here with this particular
linear function defined, we can
use the value of X to derive the
corresponding value of Y.
When we take a random error or
disturbance into consideration,
which is the third term or the
final term in a linear function?
The linear regression model also
has other components we have to
consider very carefully.
So first, when we carry out any
linear regression analysis on,
the idea is to use one or more
predictors or independent
variables to predict the value
of Y.
Once we use our data to estimate
the Intercept and the slope,
then we can use the data we have
to to predict the why.
That's another way to think
about that and the error or
disturbance turned here is part
of the render noise that cannot
be captured or explained by the
predictors we include in a
model.
Formally speaking, the error or
disturbance is defined as the
difference between the actual
and predicted outcome.
So once we put the error term
aside, in addition to the
predictor and the outcome
variable in the linear model,
the model is defined by the
intercept and the slope on the
right hand.
The intercept of the linear
function or linear linear
regression model will tell us
the corresponding value of.
Why when we set the value of X
and 0?
On one hand, the intercept of a
linear function or a linear
regression model will tell us
the corresponding value of Y
when we set the value of X at 0.
And ignored the Brendan error.
The slope on the other hand,
indicates the corresponding
change in the value of Y when we
increase the value of X by 1
unit, say from zero to one.
And the important thing here is
to recognize, given that this is
a linear function.
So I do when we move X from zero
to one or when we move X from
one to two, we should get the
same corresponding change in.
Why?
Which means umm for this
particular linear regression
model the slope is constant is a
constant change in?
Why whenever we move X by 1
unit, regardless of the initial
value of X?
Once again, he will have to
ignore the random error and the
OR disturbance.
You can see this easily by
working on the algebra.
Here you can see what the linear
regression model looks like, but
we only consider one predictor.
The model uses beta zero and
beta one to represent the
intercept and slope
respectively.
These figure is very helpful
because it clearly shows where
the Intercept is located.
Once again, the Intercept is the
value of our of our independent
variable.
Once again, the Intercept is the
value of our dependent variable.
When we set the value of our
predictor at zero, the slope
shows the corresponding changes
in Y over changes in X and when
the denominator of this fraction
is 1, then the slope tell us how
much our this.
How much are the dependent
variable would change when we
increase the value of our
predictor by 1 unit?
Here's a more realistic or
concrete example to show how a
social researcher can apply
linear regression to study the
social work.
As a reminder, this is a scatter
plot containing both the
predictor and the dependent
variable.
The predictor in this case is
the competence scores for
democratic politicians and the
US created by the researchers.
The scores range between zero
and one, with higher value
representing more perceived
competence of the given
politician.
The dependent variable is how
much percentage of votes the
democratic politicians can win
relative to the vote share of
the Republican politicians.
Each small circle in a scatter
plot represents a observation
likely to be an election in a
data set.
We can then carry out linear
regression analysis to estimate
the intercept and the slope of
the regression line.
Looking at the regression line,
it is apparent that democratic
politicians can win more votes
relative to their Republican
rivals when their voters
consider them more competent.
Let's get the plot here.
Also shows where the Intercept
is located.
Since the intercept is negative,
now we know when voters consider
Democratic politicians having no
competence at all, they will
lose a lot of votes against the
Republican politicians, and this
particular scatter plot.
It can also see there is a small
hat about alpha.
This is a common notation
researchers use to represent any
statistical metric estimated
based on the data.
The correct way to read author
hat here will be the estimated
intercept.
Likewise, the scatterplot also
uses one of the data points or
observations to remind us of the
definition of a residual.
You can see small hats being
placed on predictive why and the
residual epsilon here.
Residual can be defined as the
estimated error or estimated
disturbance using our data.
Finally, regression line has a
very interesting mathematical
fact.
The mean values of the predictor
and the mean values of the
dependent variable will always
be on the regression line and we
are not going to explain too
much where there is a case, but
this is something you can keep
in mind.
So now you know linear
regression is a very convenient
technique for us to understand
the statistical relationship
between two or more variables.
So summarize our discussion so
far.
I would say the main objective
of using linear regression is
twofold.
First, linear regression allows
us to use the linear function to
represent the correlation
between the predictor and the
outcome variable.
2nd and this is where things
become more interesting.
The least squares linear
regression analysis will allow
us to estimate the values of the
Intersect and the slopes with
some very desirable properties.
I will discuss these
probabilities.
I will discuss this properties
in a minute.
So you may have heard
researchers often use different
names to call X&Y.
So far we have used the
predictor to coax, but doing so
actually implies.
A very important assumption
about why we need a linear
regression and what we use
linear regression for first.
Also, in line with those who
invented the basic techniques of
linear regression in the 1st
place 100 years ago, we can use
the linear regression model for
forecasting using the same case
we have just gone through in the
previous slide.
It is tempting that we can use a
politicians competent score to
predict their performance in the
elections.
Of course, this is a very strong
and perhaps unrealistic
scenario, because a politicians
on performance in the elections,
or how many votes these
politicians going to get is.
Very unlikely to be a function
of a single factor or variable.
Sometimes election may just be
influenced by random noise or
random disturbance that we do
not know, or we cannot measure.
But in any case, if you believe,
or if you prefer the main data
analytical objective of linear
regression is for casting, then
X should we understood as a
predictor of our outcome
variable?
Likewise, some researchers
believe we can use the model to
explain the outcome of our
interest.
Using the same example, so
instead of saying we want to use
competence to predict on the
politicians performance in the
elections, it may be the case
that, you know, we can just use
a politician's competence to
explain their performance in the
elections, right?
In the case, we may not know
very much about, you know.
Ohh, we don't care very much
about competence being the most
important predictor of a
politician's performance, but
it's it is certainly one of the
very important factors we should
we should consider when we try
to explain, you know, their
vote, the number of votes they
receive in the elections.
So in this case.
X is better to be understood as
a explanatory variable.
Finally, before I move on to
discuss this statistical
inference of linear regression.
I also would like to make one
point very clear.
The slope we estimate using
different regression techniques,
including the list of squares
linear regression model is only
one way for us to measure the
correlation between X&Y and
you should have studied other
techniques to major or estimate
the coalition between different
variables in other quant modules
and also with certain
assumptions.
The slope we estimate can
actually tell us the causal
effect of X.
We will talk more about this
later this term, but just
remember in the field of causal
inference, X is usually
understood as the cause or the
treatment variable.
Now, given that we are clear
about the basic setup and the
data analytical objectives of
linear regression at this time
to address the question of
statistical inference, that is,
how do we estimate the intercept
and slope using the data we
have?
If we apply a linear regression
techniques, especially Lisa
squares, and how can we know the
intercept and slope we estimate
are the best ones?
The ordinary leases squares or
or less is one of the most
common techniques we used to do
the job.
They intercept and the slope
estimated using OS has some very
nice properties and one of the
most important properties is
ohls can produce unbiased point
estimates or unbiased estimate
of the intercept and slopes,
which means oh Alice can give us
the estimated intercept and
slope close to the real or true
one.
Remember, our data is always a
sample of some well defined or
unknown population and with some
assumptions or conditions we can
be more or less confident that
the estimated intercept and
slopes produced by OS can be
very similar to you if not
exactly the same as the true
intercept and the slope in the
population.
The first condition is quite
self explanatory.
To use linear regression that
has always indicated that we
assume there exist a linear
statistical leadership between
the predictor and the outcome.
Next, we need the error of each
observation to be independent
from each other.
For instance, if we are trying
to use the number of hours you
study.
Two predicted the final.
Mark, you're going to receive 4
advanced quants.
The arrow over the the procedure
of one student should not depend
on the residual or the error of
another student.
Meanwhile, at the same time we
need the value of Y to be
normally distributed across
different levels or values of X.
In other words, the value of Y
recorded in the data set given a
specific value or level of X
should be included in the
corresponding normal
distribution of.
Why at the same level of value
or level of acts, but finally we
need the variance or standard
error of the dependent variable
to be equal across different
values or levels of the
predictor X?
In a textbook, decode is
conditioned equal variance and a
more technical or or fashioned
term for this condition is
homoskedastic.
So now you know the assumptions,
but there's one thing you need
to know.
These are the conditions for.
Ohh, let's to produce unbiased
estimated intercept and slope.
This conditions do not
necessarily allow the oil as to
produce efficient estimates to,
say a point estimate is
efficient is to say these
estimates do not have a lot of
variance or standard error and
the variance over standard error
of a point estimate usually has
more to do with the statistical
power or more specifically the
sample size.
This is what we know based on
the central limit theorem.
Very often we can reduce the
variance over standard error of
our regression estimate by
increasing the sample size.
This particular scatter plot
shows the conditions we have
just described.
Again, this is a bivariate
linear regression.
Each small black dot in a
scatter plot is a data point or
a observation.
The sheep blue straight line
says the values of white can be
modeled or approximated by a
linear function of X which is
the linearity assumptions we we
need.
Next, although it is a bit hard
to see here, the distance
between each black dot and a
blue regression line does not
seem to have a clear pattern,
and it definitely does not
depend on each other, which
means the residual of 1
particular data pointer has
nothing to do with the residual
of another data point in this
particular scatter plot.
The condition is then the
independence assumption.
Furthermore, you can see that
across different levels of
values of X, the values of Y our
dependent variable follow the
same normal distribution.
The red curves in the scatter
plot demonstrate the normality
assumption.
Finally, given that they follow
the same know, what distribution
even though the mean is that
different position along with
the Y axis?
We can still see that the errors
have the same variance or
standard errors across different
levels or values of Y.
Is the case of homoscedasticity
the reason for us to say so is
because a normal distribution is
defined by its mean and
variance.
So even though two normal
distribution will have different
means, umm, they will look
really similar or even identical
to each other if they they are
variance is very close similar.
The reason for us to say so is
because I know what distribution
is defined by its mean and
variance, so to say, to know
what distributions at different
mean value identical is also
saying they have the same
variance, which is the condition
again for equal variance or
homoscedasticity.
All the scholars will combine.
Often, scholars will combined
independence, normality and
homoscedasticity assumptions to
say the outcome variable.
Why for any OS?
For oil, let's to produce
unbiased estimates must be
independent and identically
distributed across all levels or
values of the predictor X.
This is also known as a ID
condition.
It is important to highlight
that these assumptions and
conditions are very important as
we hope to obtain biased
estimates for the intercept and
slopes of the linear regression
model.
However, the violation of these
assumptions is by no means the
end of the world.
Quanta researchers in the past
decades have invented a lot of
statistical techniques we can
use to adjust or correct our
point estimates when one or more
of these assumptions are not
satisfied.
For instance, generalized linear
models are useful if our data do
not allow for linearity,
assumption or other assumptions
we are going to cover in the
coming weeks.
After all, the relationship
between acts and why it's not
always linear, it's actually a
very strong and unrealistic
assumption about how the social
world really works.
There are also other statistical
techniques we can use to relax
the the assumptions when we
conduct the regression analysis
and we are not going to cover
this techniques in this module,
but we are very welcome to
request additional references if
you want to know more about any
of these techniques and I should
also highlight that the list
here, the list of techniques I
put here is by no means
comprehensive, they are just
some examples for you to
understand.
You know they have different
techniques for us to address the
situation of when the data we
have may violate the assumptions
we have for or less and we may
have to use alternative modeling
choice or we may have to use
some more advanced techniques to
adjust our standard errors.
So we can produce value
statistical inference.
Now we are clear about the
assumptions.
It is time for us to discuss the
more important issues of
regression analysis.
How do we obtain useful
information from our analysis?
Sure, the regression analysis,
especially the least squares,
may produce unbiased point
estimates of the intercept and
slope over slopes when we
include more than one predictor
in the model.
But it is very important and
crucial for us to review some of
the key principles when it comes
to, umm, statistical inference.
And this video in this review,
I'm going to focus on two very
important issues.
And 1st I'm going to address the
question of statistical
significance and next I'm going
to briefly explain the question
of model fit.
First, after we carry out any
linear regression analysis,
we're very keen to find out if
the pointer estimate is
statistically significant or
not, given that intercept of
very often does not have too
much substantive implications on
here, our discussion will focus
on the estimated slope or better
hat.
So to determine whether the
estimate is slow as
statistically significant or
not, we will have to conduct a
hypothesis testing and you
should have learned the
rationale or procedures of
hypothesis testing in other
modules by this point.
Do you hypothesis testing for or
less is basically A2 tailed test
because we want to use ohh like
to estimate the slope.
The value of the slope or the
correlation between X&Y.
The null hypothesis is always
greater equals zero, and the
alternative hypothesis will be
beta is not zero.
By saying our estimated slope is
statistically significant is
basically to say either the
estimated beta is 6
statistically different from
zero, or to say we can reject
the null hypothesis which which
plants fade out equals 0.
For this goal.
We can either use the P value or
the confidence intervals.
If we use the P value, which is
a conditional probability that
we observe the pattern in the
data we have given that the null
hypothesis is true, we will need
this particular probability to
be really, really low for us to
say that no hypothesis is still
an unlikely to be real, and we
should reject this.
If you think this concept is
very confusing, which is very
true because it requires a lot
of thinking, ohh.
When you learn the hypothesis,
testing another alternative for
statistical reference,
especially when it comes to
statistical significance, is to
use the confidence interval.
If we want to use counters
interval then we will have to
assume first that distribution
of this particular estimate or
beta is normally distributed and
then we can use the standard
error of this particular
estimate to construct the
intervals.
The key idea is to make sure.
Depending on the level of
statistical counters you want to
choose, this interval should not
include zero, so we can reject
the null hypothesis that beta
equals zero.
Before I continue, I should
stress that statistical
significance is not the only
thing we should pay attention to
when it comes to statistical
inference of linear regression.
In addition to statistical
significance, we should also pay
close attention to the sign and
the size of the point estimate
or estimate is slope because a
statistically significant
estimated slope maybe so small
in terms of its size, that
eventually our predictor only
has a trivial correlation or
causal effect on the outcome
variable.
And when it comes to statistical
significance, whenever it comes
to statistical inference, we
should also pay attention to the
question of model fit.
There are many techniques to
evaluate whether or not the
proposed model is a good fit to
the data, and which one would
use would demand a clear
conceptualization and
operationalization of goodness
of fit a very common indicator
we use is our squared, and I put
the formal expression of our
squared here.
Us clear by thematically can be
represented as a fraction of the
variance of the predicted
outcome over the variance of the
actual come in the data.
The idea here is to make sure
this friction is as close as as
possible to one.
So we can say the model has done
a good, very good job accounting
for the variance of why, which
is the outcome of interest.
We can also calculate the sum of
squared procedures.
Sometimes we just use excess R
to see if the model performs
well by correctly predicting the
outcome variable, which requires
us some.
Which requires the residual of
each observation or data point
to be as small as possible, or
less, or the list of squares.
Linear regression is known to
generate estimated intercept and
slope such that we will have the
smallest Sr.
That's why they get the name of
Lisa Square being a regression.
That's why they get the name of
the least squares linear
regression.
So far we have used bivariate
linear regression to review the
key concept and the principles
of linear regression.
Because the concept and the
principles I have just explained
so far can be extended to
multiple regression relatively
well and multiple linear
regression is basically the
linear regression model,
including more than one
predictor or independent
variables, what will linear
regression using the least
squares has become the most
powerful regression technique
because it allows us to present
a very complicated interactive
dynamics between different
predictors on regarding the
outcome or dependent variable
and we can formally and
mathematically present a
multiple linear regression in
many ways, one of which requires
some knowledge of linear algebra
to simplify our discussion, here
is a really quick representation
without using any complicated
mathematical tools.
The only notation in this
particular equation you should
know ohh the notation that may
look unfamiliar to you is the
subscript attached to each slope
and each predictor.
Here the number basically means
different slopes and predictors.
For instance, X1 means on the
1st predictor and the better one
is the first slope associated
with X one the first predictor
in the model and OK basically
means the number of predictors
we want to put in this
particular linear regression
model.
Multiple linear regression is
not so different from bivariate
linear regression again, but now
we have to consider the meaning
of slopes with a bit of more
caution for any estimated slope,
it can be understood in
different ways, again depending
on how you view the data.
Analytical objectives of
regression analysis.
However, in the case of multiple
linear regression, we can see
any particular slope is
estimated by our yes, with the
correlation or causal effect of
other predictors being taken
into account.
Consider the example where we
investigated a correlation
between a politicians perceived
the competence and their
performance in the elections.
Say we want to include another
predictor or independent
variable in the model and a list
variable can be the economic
situation of the the politicians
constituency.
Once we include both predictors,
then the estimated slope of the
competence score variable should
be understood as the correlation
between competence and a
politician's performance in the
elections.
Why a weak control four or
accounting for the influence of
the economic situation in the
politicians constituency?
Because it is possible that once
we account for.
A constituencies economic
situation.
And politicians perceived
competence.
Where have little to do with
their performance in the
elections.
When we know it is possible.
To include more than one
predictor in the linear
regression model, which
variables we should include and
how these variables relate to
each other in the model post
become very important questions
we have to consider.
Many quantum researchers
dedicated their career to
studying the questions of model
and variable selection and the
model selection basically
involves the discussion about
model comparison.
Model comparison is a very
important type to pursue, but
model comparison will not be a
our focus here because many
model comparison techniques
often require more assumptions
and this techniques are also
very often subject to a lot of
debates.
So we are going to focus on the
question regarding variables
selection.
So As for variable selection,
the key first is to avoid or
meeting any crucial predictors
regarding that when the
variable, because it is likely
that the estimate is love of 1
predictor will become trivial or
statistically insignificant in
terms of on the estimated slope
of the predictor will become.
As for variable selection, the
key is to avoid omitting any
important predictors regarding
the dependent variable of
interest, as it is likely that
the estimate is slow or a
predictor.
Because it is very likely that
the estimate is slow of a
predictor will become trivial in
terms of the size, and will no
longer be statistically
significant once we account for
all the predictors.
Quantum Resources will focus on
statistical learning and causal
inference.
Have proposed some very useful
criteria or techniques for us to
choose variables in the
regression model and we will not
have the opportunity to cover
umm, more advanced tools for
various selection.
But you should know this is a
really exciting field and a lot
of people have dedicated their
career to study this question.
As we include one of 1 variable
in a linear regression model, it
is also very important which do
not include two predictors.
That are highly correlated with
each other, because doing so
will make our models or our
predictions or our estimation
unstable, which means the
estimated slopes will be
misleading.
Or unreliable?
This is the issue of
collinearity.
We have to consider and we can
use the various inflation factor
as a possible benchmark to
detect the presence of
collinearity in the model.
Or we can just check the
pairwise correlation of your
predictors.
I also want to highlight
sometimes having more predictors
may actually be
counterproductive, because
having more predictors were
artificially increase the value
of the R-squared.
So R-squared will no longer
serve as a useful indicator of
your model field and the trusted
our square in this case is more
useful to address this situation
because our squared and just our
square, the difference between
them is adjusted R square
include one additional term in a
formula to penalize to.
By penalizing I mean to reduce
the value of R square as you
include more predictors in the
model.
So the inclusion of more than
one predictor in the model can
also allow us to study more
complicated statistical
relationships, some of which can
actually be nonlinear.
No, we were talking more about
this when we cover our general
less linear model, but we can do
so either by, say, considering
the interaction term, the model,
or the quadratic.
Or the quadratic or polynomial
term in a model.
A linear function with
interaction term will allow us
to have some dependency between
different predictors, so the
estimate is love of 1.
Predictor can change under
different situations given by
another predictor in the model.
For instance, maybe the
correlation between political
competence and the election
results will change when we
consider the economic structure
of a constituency which, say,
can be either agriculture or
industrial.
This is also a very good
example.
In the there is also a very good
example in the textbook for you
to consider.
A linear function would say
quadratic or polynomial term
basically allows the predictor
to have a nonlinear relationship
with with the dependent
variable.
And you will see one example in
the next slide.
So here's is the interesting
question we have to ask
ourselves if multiple linear
regression actually allow us to
include more complicated
interactive dynamics between
different predictors such that
the statistical relationship we
are trying to study is no longer
linear, then why do we need to
generalize the linear model?
Where we're going to talk more
about this?
Uh, when next week when we
discuss generalized linear
model.
But here is the intuition,
generalized Lydia model actually
allows to relax more assumptions
of Lisa squares.
Linear regression in addition to
Lee.
Linearity assumption.
In addition to the linearity
assumption.
Here is a quick example of a
linear function with quadratic
terms.
In this case, we set the
INTERCEPT as.
So here's a quick example of a
linear function that would say
polynomial term because we have
X to the power of two, and in
this case we set the intercept
at one and the slopes of X&X
squared at two and the point of
five respectively.
Multiple linear regression is
convenient tool.
Now I want to conclude our
discussion, but by now it should
be clear to you this is
definitely not a guarantee.
You're statistical analysis is
going to be perfect.
There is no guarantee that your
quantum research will be.
Perfect, right?
Because very often when we are
doing multiple linear
regression, there are so many
things that are not black and
white.
There are many decisions we have
to take or we have to make as a
quant social researcher and the
decisions we make may not have a
clear answer or solution.
There are also many assumptions
we need to make, but we need to
accept before we can obtain any
useful results, and some of
these assumptions can be
controversial or unrealistic.
Also, it is very important to
understand doing good quantum
research requires a very solid
knowledge of the subject matter
and a very often we can only
obtain very solid knowledge of
the subject matter with
qualitative Social Research.
Here in this slide I put some
principles you can follow or
consider and I'm not going to
read out of this one by one.
But the key lesson is there is
no perfect model.
Nevertheless, note that by no
means invalidates on the
analytical value of using linear
regression models to to study or
understand the social world or
human behaviors, and it's in
time you should be prepared that
any solid quantum Social
Research where required you to
use multiple statistical
techniques and only having your
table with one regression model
including all predictors will
not get you very far.
So I would like to end our
review by quoting George Box.
Again, remember, statistical
models are only approximations
of our real life, but there's
some very good approximations if
we can think really, really
hard, because all models are
wrong as put by George Box.
But some of these are useful, so
this is the main.
Idea of advanced topics in
quantitative Social Research.
Right.
You have about 10 some very
basic understanding of multiple
linear regression and now it is
time to apply your knowledge
into practice.
And as we are trying to apply
multiple linear regression,
we're also going to introduce
some of more advanced
statistical techniques, while at
the same time we're also going
to have a lot of opportunities
to discuss some very practical
issues when we try to implement
this analysis for our own
research.
Thank you very much.
Again, I'm looking forward to
seeing you in class.